Update versioning.md (#13)
OpenDataServices/os4d: docs/patterns/versioning.md

See [release candidate (Wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle#Release_candidate). 

## Version management 

### Problem 

As more versions of a standard are released it's important that they are archived and managed carefully. This is especially important where several different versions of the standard are being used at the same time. There may also be cases where patches need to be applied across several versions simultaneously - such as minor changes to schema documentation. 

### Solution 

> When using GitHub to store versions, we have found this approach to be effective. 
> 
> * Use a 'live' branch for each minor version (e.g. 1.1). This allows for patches to be applied to older versions of a schema. 
> * Use a tag or a Git Hub "release" for each release (e.g. 1.1.5). This provides a snapshot of the schema at that point in time, and cannot be changed later. 
> 
> Documentation is built from the live branches, only minor versions are shown in the documentation. 
> 
> More information about how this approach is used can be found in the [OCDS Development Handbook](https://ocds-standard-development-handbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/standard/technical/repository.html#branches-and-tags) 

Reviewer: @kathryn-ods apols for the major rewrite! There was nothing whatsoever wrong about what you wrote - my suggestion just adds a lot more detail and aims to make the documentation in OS4D more self-contained.

Please check that it all makes sense before committing! Happy to discuss if that would be helpful :-)

```suggestion

When using Git for version control, we recommend the [approach](https://ocds-standard-development-handbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/standard/technical/repository.html#branches-and-tags) used in the Open Contracting Data Standard (OCDS):

* A 'live' [branch](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-branches) for each minor version, named in `MAJOR.MINOR` format, e.g. `1.1`
* A [tag](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Tagging) for each release, named in `MAJOR__MINOR__PATCH` format, e.g. `1.1.0`.

This use of branches and tags allows documentation to change between versions, whilst ensuring schema isn't changed between versions. It also allows for the simultaneous maintenance, including patching, of multiple live versions.

For example, the published OCDS documentation has versions on different MAJOR.MINOR [branches](https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/branches/all) (e.g. https://standard.open-contracting.org/1.0/en/), whereas the published OCDS schema has versions on different MAJOR__MINOR__PATCH [tagged releases](https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/tags) (e.g. https://standard.open-contracting.org/schema/1__0__1/release-schema.json).

The approach is described in further detail below.

#### Branch structure

Use branches to maintain multiple versions and to isolate development work on specific features and versions.

For each released minor version, maintain:

* A 'live' branch containing the deployed revision of the standard documentation, named after the version in `MAJOR.MINOR` format, e.g. `1.1`.
* A 'dev' branch for staging non-normative changes, named after the version in `MAJOR.MINOR` format with a `-dev` suffix, e.g. `1.1-dev`.

For each pre-release minor version under active development, maintain a `dev` branch for staging backwards-compatible normative changes to the previous minor version, named after the version in `MAJOR.MINOR` format, e.g. `1.2-dev`

For each pre-release patch version under active development, maintain a `dev` branch for staging backwards-compatible bug fixes to normative content, named after the version in `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` format, e.g. `1.1.1-dev`.

Feature or topic branches should branch off and be merged into the relevant `-dev` branch.

For example, a standard with released versions 1.0 and 1.1, and with version 1.2 under active development would use the following branch structure:

* `1.0`: Contains the deployed revision of version 1.0
* `1.1`: Contains the deployed revision of version 1.1
  * `1.1-dev`: Used to stage non-normative changes to version 1.1
  * `1.1.1-dev`: Used to stage backwards-compatible bug fixes to normative content in version 1.1
  * `1.2-dev`: Used to stage backwards-compatible normative changes to version 1.1
    * `new-field`: Used to isolate development work on a new field to be added in version 1.2.

#### Branch protection

`X.X` and `X.X-dev` branches should be [protected](https://help.github.com/articles/about-protected-branches/).

#### Tags and releases

For each release, create a Git tag named after the version in `MAJOR__MINOR__PATCH` format, e.g. `1__1__0`.

#### Documentation site

Build a version of the standard's documentation from each live branch and publish it at a URL that includes the branch name (the version number in `MAJOR.MINOR` format), e.g. http://example.com/standard/1.0/.

Display only minor versions on the documentation site.

#### Schema

For each Git tag, publish a version of the schema at a URL that includes the tag name (version number in `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` format), e.g. http://example.com/standard/1__0__0/schema.json. When using [Read the Docs](https://about.readthedocs.com/) for deployment, this can be achieved by building and hiding a version of the documentation site for each Git tag, as in the [Risk Data Library Standard](https://docs.riskdatalibrary.org/en/latest/).
```

Author: Thanks Duncan, this is brilliant :)
